Summary of 38th_meeting_of_the_BoG_28.04.2015:
Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology AllahabadAllahabad-211004 [India]Website: http:/Awww.mnnit.ac.inMinutes of the Thirty-elghth [38] meeting of the Board of Governors held on 28.04.2015 at44.00 A. M. at The Visaya, N 82, Panchshila Park, New Delhi. Thirty-eighth r[3e8i"}r ’M eoting of the Board of Govemors p{am7em8ce.mm0re4na.e 2i0l4 5) Minutes  of 10 | “Motilal Nehru National tnsttute of Technology Allahabad [MNNIT AllaaDag) saanMember5. Prof. Ajit K. ChaturvediDeputy Director&ProfessorDepartment of Electrical EngineeringIndian Institute of Technology Kanpur. Thirty-sighth (38) Mating of the Board of Govarnars [26.04.2045] Minutes Motilal Nehru National institute of Technology Allahabad. The Board of Governors expressed its satisfaction over the progressmade by the Institute during the period. The actionablepoints noted on action taken report is enclosed at ANNEXURE-I. Item No. 38.03 : Director's Report. Resolution on Item No.: 50.14 (fii); The Board of Governors noted the resolutionsof Senate for amendment to the clause 3.2.4 of the Ordinances of DoctoralProgrammes. The Board of Governors considered the confirmation of the services of Mr. BhoreSkylab Pavalas, Assistant Professor, MED, who was appointed as AssistantProfessors [on Contract] initially for a period of three years, extendible for anothertwo years. ftem No. 38.07 : To consider the request made by Ms. Sarika Kalra, Former AssistantProfessor [on Contract], Department of Flectrical Engineering regarding herrepeal against termination of services for the post of Assistant Professor. Mrs. Ritu Arya, Former Assistant Professor{on Contract], Department of Chemical Engineering for mercy appeal againsttermination of her of services as an Assistant Professor. The Board of Governors resolved to adhere to the decision taken in Its Thirty-fifth [35% meeting held on 28.07.2014.iter No. 38.10. No new convincing facts have emerged forrecommendations of hercase. The Board of Governors of the Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad (MNNIT Allahabag) considered the proposal for renovation of the Hostel Washrooms of the Institute. The Board of Governors considered the proposal for renovation of theHostel Washrooms of the Institute and resolved that a Committee with members from Alumni and Institute may be constituted which shall look after the complete construction process. The amount earmarked by the Alumni Association for the above work will be deposited with the Institute. item No. 38.12: To consider the report of the Chief Vigilance Officer of the Institute on thecomplaints received by him or referred to him. rate Alumni Fund ManagementCommittee with Alumni members and Institute members are formed for all such Alumni Association related fund allocations. The Board of Govemors considered request made by Dr. Shailendra KumarMishra, Medical Officer in-charge on Contract Basis regarding grant of relaxation. The Board of Governors also resolved that the cases turned down by the Board ofGovernors earlier should not be put up again unless there is any new convincingfacts in the matter for reconsideration. Board of Governors considered the request made by Mr. Deepesh Tiwari forwithdrawal of resignation. Resolved not to accept his request for withdrawal inview of the fact that the existing provisions of withdrawal of resignation do not apply. item No. 38.18 : To consider the request made by employees working in the institute underInstitute Contract for parity in terms of salary and other benefits with regularemployees of the Institute. Resolved that the matter be sent to the Ministry of HRD with full details forconsideration. Resolution - The Board of Governors deferred the discussion on the Screening Criteriassuggested by the Advisory Committee on Faculty Recruitment. Resolved to consider the same in the next meeting. item No. 38.23 - To consider the request made by Dr. Sumedha Ghakma, Assistant Professor,Department of Civil Engineering regarding his technical resignation from the Institute. iutionPolicy [IPR Policy] of the Institute, and resolved to consider the same. The Board of Governors of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad will consider further appropriate action in the following matters. The board will consider the signing of the agreement for Academic Cooperation and Exchange between California State University Monterey Bay and MIST Allahabad. item No. 38.25 : To consider the request made by the President, Teachers Association, MNNITAllahabad for considering the demands of Teachers Association. The Board of Governors deferred the discussion on the proposal for procurement of additional equipment under TEQIP-I. The Registrar appraised Board about the Fresh advertisement for the postsscreening and selection process adopted by the of Medical Officers and Librarian Institute for filling up the non-faculty positions. The Board of Governorsconsidered the recommendations of the Selection Committee for the posts of AssistantRegistrars, Medical officers and Librarians. Assistant Registrar,Medical Officers and Librarian and resolved toapprove the same. The recommendations of theSelection Committee are as follows:Assistant Registrar [OBC Category]PB-3 (215,600-239,100/-] with Grade Pay of f 5400/- Medical Officerbem “Name of Candidate _ 1 Catagory | Pay Band &GP | Remaw~-NONE FOUND SUITABLE wav -—eee \ Action Taken”. Ag per rakes Waring List-2* The candidate Is OBC but selected in UR category. The Board of Governors of IIT Kanpur has decided to set up a committee to look into anomalies in pay parity. The committee will also consider the proposal for DepartmentalVisiting Committee to carry outComprehensive Audit every year. The Board of Governors accepted the recommendations of the ACoFAR(Screening Committee) on the application of Dr. $ N. Pandey for promotion toProfessor under Career Advancement Scheme. Career Advancement Scheme [CAS] and noted Moreover, as regards ACoFARthat Dr. S. N. Pandey is not eligible for promotion. The Board of Governors deferred the discussion on the report of the Chief Vigilance Officer of the report to be put up for only thosematters in which BoG is the Institute. The Board of Govemors. ompetent Authority fo decideof the matter. The matter was referred to the National Security Council by the British government.