Summary of 65th meeting of the BoG Meeting [25.06.2021]-Minutes:
The meeting was held on June 25, 2021 at 03:00 p.m. through on-line mode [on Google Meet] as well as Conference Room, Executive Development Centre,MNNIT Allahabad. The Bo. extended a warm welcome to the members and thanked them for taking their time out toattend the meeting. Prof. Neeraj Misra, Professor, IIT Kanpur could not attend the meeting due to-his preoccupation. Board of Governors was informed about the sad demise of one of the members of the Board of GovernorsShri Madan Mohan, ADG (HE), MoE on 26.04.2021. Chairperson extended a warm weicome to Prof. Rakesh Narain, and Shri Rajesh Tripathi, who were attending the meeting for the first time. M. M. Gore and Dr. Vandana Agrawal, during their term as members of the Board of the Institute. The Board of Governors deliberated on the agenda items, and agenda item-wise proceedings are as under. Sixty-flfth [65] Meeting of the Baard of Goveraors [25.08.2021] Minutes Page 3of 14 Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad. The Board acknowledged the contributions made by Prof. Manoj Madhava Goreand Dr. Vandana Agrawal during their term as members of the Board of Governor. The Board of Governors noted the approval accorded by the Chairperson,ResolutionBoard of Governors on the requests made by the faculty member Dr. NavjotpSingh, Assistant Professor, Grade-ll, Department of Computer Science &Engineering for accepting his resignation from the services of the Institute. To consider the nomination of one person, nominee of the Board ofGovernors from amongst its members to the Finance Committee. The Board of Governors noted that the term of appointment of Prof. Mang}Madhava Gore, Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, hascome to an end on 14,06,2021. The Board of Govemors resolved to confirm and ratify the approval accorded by the Chaiiperscon, Board of governors regarding nomination ofProf. Rakesh Narain. The Board of Governors considered the Memorandum of UnderstandingResolution[MoU] submitted by the Institute for execution of the same between the Institute and the Ministry of Education for the Financial Year 2021-22. The Board of Governors noted that the annual allocation for the Financial Year2021-22 in respect of MNNIT Allahabad by the Ministry of Education is asunder. The Board expressed its satisfaction on the performance of the Institute for thesaid periods. The Board noted the scare and overall rating of the institute as under:Period Consolidated RatingScoreFourth Quarter of 2020-21 93.87 Excellent.Annual performance for Financial 93,22 ExcellentYear 2020-24. The Board advised the Institute to once again the check the outstanding auditparas, if any, and report the same in the next meeting of the Board ofGovernors. MUNPL may provide experlenced faculties for taking of lectures explainingpower plant practical aspects. Plant visit, and other non-commercial nature which may facilitate study of MNNIT studenis/rescuers’ may be arranged at MUNPL. MNNIT Allahabad and MejaUrja Ngam Pvt. LTd. (MUNPL) to explore industry academy collaboration in the field of power generation. Quality testing may be carried out at MNNIT,10. Any other programme or partnership may be taken up jointly by mutualconsensus of CEO & Director. Resolution : [A] The Board of Governors considered the recommendations of the Seventieth[70"| meeting of Senate held on 23.03.2021 regarding revised rules andguidelines for institution of sponsored medals/scholarship. Starting a new Gold Medal sponsored by Mr. Amit Shukla. The Board of Governors considered the recommendations of the meetings of theResolutionDepartmental Promotion Commitiees held on June 22, 2021 for promotion of Non-Faculty members of ihe Institute. The Board was apprised that the Institute has followed the quidelines notified by theMinistry of Education vide fetter. The Board was informed that the institute before considering the cases of eligiblestaff members by the respective DPCs, vigilance clearance in respect of each of them has been taken from the CVO of the Institute. The Board was told that the Institute has conducted interview for all the positions as per provisions of the Statute 23(5)(d) andStatute 23 (12) The Board was further apprised that Selection Committees of different posts fordifferent departments/ sections were constituted. s prepared reservation rosters foreach of fhe promotional post and due procedures as detailed in Government of Indiaguidelines as well as Institute Act and Statutes. The Board of Governors noted the status/ updates in the matter of redeployment/adjustment of NTMIS Staffs. This is in light of the Contempt Petition No. 28 of 2020 at the Hon'ble Central Administrative Tribunal, Allahabad Bench. The case could not be taken up so far due to Covid-19pandemic second wave. The Board considering the above resolved to wait for the decision of the Hon'bieCentral Administrative Tribunal, Allahabad Bench In the Contempt Petition No. 28 of2020 filed by Shri Manish Singh & others vs. Union of India & others. date of hearing on the case is on 13.07.2021. The Board noted the current status and also noted that the term of appointment ofthe current Director, Prof. Rajeev Tripathi is upto October 06, 2021, .The Board also took cognizance of the Ministry of Education guidelines advising theHeads of Autonomous Organisations to refrain from making selections atleast two before the expiry of their term or retirement. Resolution : [A] The Board of Governors considered ihe minutes of the Sixtieth [60.] meetingof the Finance Committee held on 25.06.2021. The Board of Governors was informed that Prof, G. K. Mehrotra, Professor,Department of Chemistry vide his letter dated 21.06.2021 has request withdrawhis request for voluntary retirement from the services of the Institute. The Board noted that theFinance Committee has resolved accepted the proposal. This Memorandum of Understanding (hereinafter referred to as "MOU") Is made on day of(month)year. Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad, Prayagraj (formerly MotilAL Nehru RegionalEngineering College, Allahabad) established.  ished by the Act of Parliament “National Institute of Technology Act,instituteNationalNehruMotilalatOfftceRegisteredItshavingand“MNNIT"astoreferredhereinafter2007of Technology Allahabad, Prayagraj. In consideration of the dforésaid objective, the parties hereto agree to sign these presents :. on mutuallyagreed tetms and.conditions contained hereinafter. Thepartiesshallalsocollaborate forup-gradationofiTsystems.inMUNPL, includingintroductionofnewtechnologieslikeDataAnalytics,ArtificialIntelligence(Al),MachineLearningandRobotics. MUNPLandMNNITshallaisocollaborate forfacilitatingjointthesis/reséarch. projectsandspecialprojectsonpowerplantproblems,energyandalliedtechnologies. Everyyear,celebrationofEngineersDay,NationalTechnolagyDay,WorldEnvironmentDay,atc. reas,MUNPLmayprovidesponsorshipfortechnicalfests. The MoU maybeautomaticallyextended for the next 3 (three) year period unless either party notifies the other of its intention to terminate the MOU. Notification for termination at any point of time shall be made in writing at least three one (01) month inadvance. The MoU should-be modified or amended only by written agreement between the Parties. Parties to the extent of their respective rights to do so, shall exchange such technical informationand data as is reasonably required. Data exchanged by the parties. under this MoU shall not be used for any other purpose except thepurpose set out under thisMoU. d) Consullants/acvisors (from government or non-government agencies from Indiaand abroad),provided they in {urn sign a similar undertaking of confidentiality. Information in possession ‘of the party at: the time of disclosure and, which. was. hot acquited,directly of Indirectly from the other party, 7¢) Information which a party is required fo-disclose under law. This MOU shall come into force from the date of ifs signing for all purposes and intents and shall remain inforce for a period of 03 years. Any party can terminate this MOU with an advance written intimalion the other party with a notice period. Force majeure events such as but not limitto eAdct s of Gad, war,flood, earthquakes, strikes, lockouts, change in law, epidemics, riots, civil commotion, etc. provided on theoccurrence and cessation of any-such events the affected party thereby shall give. a notice in writing to theother parties within 15 days of such occurrence or cessation. In the event of any further dispute after conciliation/ arbilration relating to or arising out of this MOU, the same shail be settled by the Competent Court of Prayagraj. This MOU contains the enflre understanding between the parties and supersedes all prior orcontemporaneous oral or written agreements, commitments understanding or communication with fespectto the subject matter thereof. ecap ngi n anha misl rh vrlolk deafod nm rra v ueyee n l o vl n g i l r o pi acimonocerekaewmorfgnimocstnedutssuoirotiremtsissyallaicnanifotredroni. nopsfonoitutitsnifoevitcejbO)3aniecnellecxe,ecnamrofrepcimedacatnelleCxerognidnatstuonaetomorpotredronI)i(,stropsdnasemag,ecivreslaicos,hcraeserniecnelLEc The minimum scholarship per student per year may be the tuition lee/mess fee/a fixedamount not less than Rs.20,000.00 p n. Theweight&sizeofthemedaltobeinstituted{40}gramsofsilver(purityatleast99%) withgoldplatingshallbesameasthatofotherInstitutemedals.Sponsoringauthoritymaynotbe allowedforsuggestinganychangeinthe:medaltoinstitute,CS,ApaPw no rda inzrseo dsr sed. Academicrequirementforawardofnewmedals/scholarship/awards/prizesetc.wilt be.Passedallprevioussemesterexaminationsinfirstattempt.CPInotfessthan6.5and7.5 for U.G. and P.G students. ‘sadellaceblliwetaneSehtottignidnemmocertsisnocllahstl.)eettimmoCsezirPdnasdrawAladeMpihsralohcSetaneS(”eetticosehtybdezingocerseulavlacihtednalaromhgihhtiwnoitutitsnI/laudividniynA)b(8)erudecorPderosnopS=wenos—=3fo©«noitutits nirofylppa—~llahsrosnopsehT)a(,|eruxennAnine MNNIT Allahabad’: IfAlumnioftheInstitute, thenProgramme:Branch (esc aeYearofpassing:“5.Incasetheearnedbecomeslessthantherequiredamount,p. Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology AllahabadPrayagraj-211004 [India]Website: http://www.mnnit.ac.inMinutes of the Sixtieth [60t] meeting of the Finance Committee held on June 25, 2021 at 02:30 p.m. through on-line mode [on Google Meet] as well as at Conference Room, Executive DevelopmentCentre, MNNIT Allahabad. Prof. Neeraj Misra, Professor, IIT Kanpur [nominee of Director] member, Finance Committeecould not attend the meeting due to he was out of country. The Finance Committee was informed about the sad demise of one of the members of the Finance Committee Shri Madan Mohan, ADG (HE), MoE on 26.04.2021. The Finance Committee expressed its condolences to the family of the departed soul. The Finance Committee deliberated on the agenda items, and agenda item-wise proceedings are as under:PsSixtieth [80] Meeting of the Finance Committee [25.06.2021] Minutes  of 7 Motilal Nehru National institute of Technology Allahabad [MNNIT Allahabad]a TUS CR TCV The Finance Committee considered the Memorandum of Understanding [MoU] submitted by the Institute for execution of the same between the Institute and the Ministry of Education. The Finance Committee resolved fo note the same. Minutes of 7 Motilal Nehru National institute of Technology Allahabad [MNNIT Allahabad]acARNNCCCCSC[B] The Finance Committee considered the annual allocation of funds to theInstitute. The Finance Committee noted that the work of repair of drains/laying of storm sewerline and provision of footpath in Institute Campus and repair of roads in the Hostel Campus of the Institute, was awarded fo the CPWD Allahabad with theAdministrative Approval/ Expenditure sanction of * 9,08,98,000.00. The Finance Committee was also apprised of with the necessity of these works. It is pertinent to mention here that the studentoccupancy has increased five folds in the hostel campus. The Finance Committee was also apprised of the details of additional items/ worksunder the proposed works. The E.E., CPWD vide letter no:54(17) /Rogo/ vaovdorsigode/s07om/ 2020319 dated 17.03.2020. Sixtieth (60°) Meeting of the Finance Committee [25.06.2021] Minutes Page 5af7 Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad [MNNIT Allahabad]1. Laying of New Sewer line for waste water received | 222, 92,512.00 |from Mega Hostel & P.G. Hostel.2. Providing & fixing M.S. grating over all open drains 776,97, 936.00under ongoing work.3. Construction 731,47,000,00 of seflling tank for centralized kitchen of Tilak,Tandon, Malviya & Patel Hostel, The Finance Committee advised the Institute to take adequate care in planning ofall works. The Finance Committee with the permission of the Chairman, considered the matter of adoption of the Central Civil Services (implementation of National Pension System) Rules, 2021 notified by the Ministry of Perso. The Finance Committee was apprised that one of the faculty members of theInstitute, covered under the NPS, has lost his life in April 2021 during the Covid-19Pandemic. His family dependent family members have requested for grant offamily pension and death gratuity, quoting provisions of the above referred notification. The meeting ended with thanks to the Chair. ove recommendations of the Finance Committee in its very next meeting. The meeting was held on March 31, 2021. 1946 GI/2021 (} ])i(3.CES—-IItraP[YRANIDROARTXE:AIDNIFOETTEZAGEHT82SNOISNEPDNASECNAVEIRGCILBUP,LENNOSREPFOYRTSINIMt’nser)m eentrnor aoia fisp s lndn eeene WDPf aP( oNOITACIFITON,h,c 1ihr 2w ht0l aee 0e h 2M3N tDfo841elcitrafo)5. 1. Railway servants;(b) persons in casual and daily rated employment;(c) persons paid from contingencies;(d) members of the All India Services;(e) foreign countries. 3roknaBevreseRehtsnaemyrotirretnoinUrotnemtrapeDroyrtsiniMaotnoitalerni’s “Gpr i b togs o-,seriuqeresiwrehtotxetnocehtsselnu,seluresehtnI-,snoitinifeD’. htmohwotsnosrep)h(tnemnlrla da er r eive e ucn d s e oes y hre Gpr ib togs    ‘’’, ‘”’;“”,”;” 3102fo32(3102,tcAytirohtuAtnempoleveDdnayrotalugeRdnuFnoisnePehtfo3noitcesfo)1(tnemnrevoGlartneCehtybputesytirohuAtNem poleveDdna. dna)2(tnemtrapeDroyrtsiniMnoinUaro)dewollofebotdesirohtuaeraedoCtnuoccAskroWcilbuPlartne. plartne’s. ATCT BT   “”ycnegAgnipeekdroceRlartne C’� territory, who is authorised to withdraw money for specified types of payments against an assignmentaccount opened in his favour in a specified branch of an accredited bank. “Defence Services” means services under the Government of India. “Head of Office” means a Gazetted Officer declared as such under rule 14 of Delegation of FinancialPowers Rules,1978. ncludes such other authority or person whom the President may, by order, specify asHead of a Department. “Local Fund administered by Government’ means the find administered by a body which, by law or rule, comes under the control of the Government. “Pension fund’ means an intermediary which has been granted a certificate of registration under sub-section(3) of section 27 of the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 2013 by the Authority. “Permanent Retirement Account Number” means a unique identification number allotted to cach subscriber. A Government servant to whom these rules apply, shail,immediately on joining service submit an application in Common Subscriber Registration Form. “Trustee Bank" means a banking company as defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949), The Head of Office shall keep a copy of the applicationform for record. The application is compietein all respects, countersign it indicating the date of receipt and send it to the Drawing and Disbursing Officer within three working days of joining the Government servant. The Central Recordkeeping Agency shall complete registration process and allocate a Permanent RetirementAccount Number in respect of each Government servant. The Pay and Accounts Officer or the Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Officer, as the case may be, shallcommunicate Permanent Retirement Account Number (PRAN) to the concerned Drawing anddisburser. Permanent Retirement Account Number (PRAN) to be communicated to the Head of Office immediately. First contribution of the Government servant shall be credited in his Individual Pension Account within twenty days of submission of the applicatio. In a case where the process of registration of the Government servant in the National Pension System has notbeen completed before the date of drawal of the salary for the first month or any subsequent month, such salary orsalaries shall be paid to the Government servants after withholding the amount of contribution. The expression “emoluments’ for the purpose of determining the amount of mandatorycontribution under the National Pension System includes basic pay, non-practicing allowance granted to medical officer in lieu of private practice and admissible dearness allowance in a calendar month. ‘If a Subscriber had been under suspension, the subsistence allowance drawn during the period of suspension in a calendar month shall be taken into account for emoluments for the purpose of this rule’ ‘In the case of a Sub scriber on foreign service or deputation outside India, the pay which he would have drawnunder the Government had he not been on foreignService or such deputation, shall be take into account foremoluments’ The National Pension System shallwork on defined contribution basis. A Subscriber shall make a contribution of ten per cent or such other percentage asmay be notified from time to time, of his emoluments to the National Pension system every month. No contribution shall be made by the Subscriber during the period of absence from duty (whether on leave orotherwise) for which no pay or leave salary is payable. Contributions in respect of any arrears of salary received by th The Subscriber shall contribute toward National Pension System during the period spent under probation. Deduction and crediting of contributions to the Individual Pension Account during foreign service in India or outside India will be regulated. A Subscriber may, at his option, make contribution in excess of the contribution specified in sub-rule (1) inaccordance with the procedure laid down by the Authority and the Government. The Pay and Accounts Officer or the Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Officer, as the case may be, shall remitthe contribution to the Trustee Bank through the Accredited Bank. The Government shall make contribution of 14 per cent or suchother percentage as may be notified from time to time. The amount of contribution payable shall be rounded off to the nexthigher rupee. During leave, the Governmentshall make contribution equal to 14 per cent or such other percentage as may be notified from time to time. nability to join orrejoin duty on account of civil commotion; or for pursuing higher studies considered useful in discharge of officialduty. Government contributions to the National Pension System shall be determined based on the emoluments which the Subscriber becomes entitled to for the period of suspension. The difference of the amount of contribution to be deposited by the Government and the Amount of contribution already deposited will be credited to the Individual Pension Account. The rate of interest for this purpose would be the rate ofinterest as decided by the government from time to time. The amount of contribution payable shall be rounded off to the next higher rupee. The provisions regarding time line as applicable in the case of remittance of contribution by the Subscriber would also be applicable for remittance by the Government. The rate of interest for this purpose would be the rat. ed period, as determined in accordance with rule 8.8. The interest shall be credited to the Individual Pension Account of the employee. The rate of interest applicable for the period from 1st January, 2004 to 31°" December, 2012 shall be asnotified by Department of Financial Services in its Notification F. No. 1/3/2016-PR dated 31" January, 2019. The delinquent official or officials shall be liable to pay the amount of pecuniary loss to theGovernment. This will be without prejudice to any disciplinary action which the disciplinary authority may propose to take against the official. Exercise an option in Form 1 for availing benefits under the National Pension System or under the Central Civil Service (Pension) Rules, 1972. Government servants, who are alreadyin Government service and are covered by the National pension system, shall also exercise such option as soon as possible. Every Government servant shall, along with the option in Form 1, also submit details of family in Form 2 to the Head of Office. If the Government servant has no family, he shall furnish the details in Form2 as soon as he acquires afamily. A child with a disability which makes him unable to earn his living should be supported by a Medical Certificate. The child must be below the rank of Civil Surgeon, that the child still suffers from the disability. The Head of Office on receipt of communication from the Government servant regarding any change in thesize of family shall incorporate such a change in Form 2. The last option exercised by the deceased Subscriber shall be treated as final and the family shall have no right to revise the option. If a Subscrier dies before completion of service offifteen years or within three years of the notification of these rules, his family will be pranted family pension inaccordance with the provisions of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972. Subscriber is discharged from Government service on invalidation or disability before completion ofservice of fifteen years. He will be granted invalid pensionor disability pension in accordance with the provisions of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules. Hi. where the option exercised by the deceased Subscriber in. accordance with sub-rule (1) becomes infructuous on account of non-availability of. aneligible member of the family for grant of family pension. Such option would be deemed to have become invalid. Benefits admissible under the National Pension System shall be granted to the legal heir(s) of the employee. 12, Retirement on completion of twenty years’ regular service.  of extension ofservice beyond the age of superannuation, shall be entitled to benefits as admissible under the Pension FundRegulatory and Development Authority. “Regular service” shall mean service commencing from the date of joining of a post in the Central Government on aregular basis, whether on direct recruitment or absorption or re-employment basis. Past regular service, in the same or another Central Government Department, a State Government or an autonomous or statutorybody, shall include past regularservice. Government Department, a State Government or an autonomous or statutory body, shall not be treated as regular service for the purpose of this rule. The notice of voluntary retirement given under sub-rule (1) shall require acceptance by the appointing authority. A Subscriber, who has chosen to retire under this rule and has given the necessary notice to that effect to theappointing authority, shall be precluded from withdrawing his notice except with the specific approval of such authority. This rule shall not apply to a Subscribing who, -(a) retires under the Special Voluntary retirement Scheme of Department of Personnel and Training relating toyoluntary retirement of surplus employees as notified by their Office Memorandum No, 25013/6/2001-Estt. (A) datedthe 28" February, 2002. The Subscriber, on voluntary retirement from service, shall be entitled to benefits admissible under thePension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Exits and Withdrawals under National Pension System)Regulations, 2015. shall be entitled to benefits as admissible under the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority ( Exits and Withdrawals under National Pension System) Regulations, 2015. If the Subscriber intends to continue his Individual Pension Account. Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Exits and Withdrawals under National Pension System)Regulations, 2015.14, Resignation from Government service. The lump sum and the annuity out of theSubscriber's accumulated pension corpus shall be paid to him in accordance with the regulations notified by the Authority. If the Subscriber dies before the expiry of a period of ninety days from the date on which theresignation becomes effective, the payment shalt be made to the person eligible to receive such payment immediately. The Subscriber shall be deemed to be a member of the National Pension System from the date he joined theGovernment service on a post to which he was first appointed. Where the employees of such Department or State Government are not covered by the National pension system, the Subscrier shall be eligible to receive benefits under National Pension system. The Government. may permit a person to withdraw his resignation in the public interest on the following conditions. The person concerned was not a temporary Government servant at the time of acceptance of his resignation. The resignation was tendered by the Government servant for some compelling reasons which did not involveany reflection on his integrity, efficiency, or conduct. 15. s vacated by the Government servant on the acceptance of his resignation or any othercomparable post, is available. The order shall be deemed to include the condonation of interruption in service. The benefit on absorption in or under a corporation, company or body. Exits and Withdrawals under National Pension System, 2015 as admissible in the case of exit of Subscriber on superannuation. The subscriber shall be deemed to have retired from service from the date of such absorption. tnemnrevoGehtfonoisrevnocno,ohwsrebircsbuSehtotylppaoslallahs}1(elur-busrednusnoisivorpehT}2(t g sn n ue i o dm , k m eg a l dt o l en tr h i c r r n o cpa cye klito e o ytranD e i n w h i t h e w e r w o r i n t o a p u b s e c u n d o r a u t b o d c o n o r f i n. Explanation (2) - For the purposes of this rule, body means autonomous body or statutory body. iber, -(i) joins a corporation or company or body on immediate absorption basis. Section 20 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act,2016 (49 of 2016) are not applicable. If a Subscriber intends to retire from the service on account of any bodily or mental infirmityonbenefitsforDepartmentofHeadthetoapplymayheservice, theforhimincapacitatespermanentlywhichretirement on invalidation. 6) The Head of Office or the Head of Department shall, on receipt of an application under sub-rule (2), within. 30 days of receipt of such request, by the following medical authority. A service bookforrequestinglettertheofcopyAreported.beshouldthereinrecordedagetheSubscriber,theformaintainedbeingisexamination by the medical authority shali be endorsed to the Subscriber. If a Subscriber is found to be unfit for further service, he maybe granted benefits on retirement on invalidation. If he is willing to be so employed, he may be employed on lower post. If a Subscriber retires on account of any bodily or mental infirmity which permanentlyincapacitates him for the service, further action will be taken by the Head of Office for disbursement of benefits. N. whose case the provision of section 20 of theRights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (49 of 2016) are not applicable. N. who retires from the service on account ofany bodily or mental infirmity which permanently incapacitates him for the service. If a Subscriber's pension is boarded cut on account of disablement attributable to Government service, further action will be taken by the Head of Office. The remaining accumulated pension corpus shail be paid to the Subscribing in lump sum. If a Subscriber, who has become eligible to avail the benefits under the National Pension System, is boarded out on account of disablement attributable to Government service, he may be granted benefits. The lump sum and the annuity out of his accumulated pension corpus shall be paid to him in accordance with theregulations notified by the Authority payable to the Subscriber as admissible. fotcepsernisesachcusninekatgniebnoitcaynaotecidujerptuohtiwebllahs)1(elur-busrednunoisivorpehT)2(etcnd neey s d s amtt t e t dei i i au rrfre e f lri e s ot e e s s e l ur a n d t h e t e n o t o v y A retired Subscriber, who was in receipt of an Invalid Pension under the Central Civil Services (Pension)Rules, 1972 in terms of rule 16, or a disability pension, will be eligible for benefits. If the death is attributable to Government service, further action will be taken by the Head of Office for disbursement of benefits. Government contribution and returns thereon in the accumulated pension corpus of the Subscriber shall betransferred to Government account. The remaining accumulated pension. corpus shall be paid in lump sum to theperson(s) in whose. favour a nomination has been made under the Pension Fund Regulatory and DevelopmentnominationsuchnoisthereIf2015.Regulations,System)PensionNationalunderWithdrawalsand(ExitsAuthority) 22, Intimation to the Directorate of Estates regarding issue of "no demand certificate’.- (1) The Head ofOffice sh.  every three months, that is, on the Ist January, 1* April, 1° July and 1* October each year of all Subscribers who are due to retire. All subscribers must write to the Directorate of Estates at least one year before the anticipated date of retirement of theforallottee)astoreferred(hereinafteraccommodationGovernmentaofoccupationinisorwaswhoSubscriberissuing a ‘No demand certificate! G3) The National Pension System shall generate claim IDs and inform nodal officers, i.e. the Pay and AccountsOfficers or the Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Officers six months before the date of retirement. Superannuation or Voluntary Retirement or Premature retirement under | Form 4-A.tule 56(j) of Fundamental Rules. The Head of Office shall forward the complete papers to the Pay and Accounts Officer through the Drawing and Disbursing Officer. The Head of Office shall retain a copy of each of the forms and documents referred to in sub-rule (1) forhis record. In case the Subscriber intends to continue his Individual Pension Account or to defer payment of benefits beyond the date of superannuation or exit, he shall exercise an option in thisregard. This is in accordance with the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Exits and Withdrawals under National PensionSystem) Regulations, 2015. Subscribers on deputation. 27, Interpretation, - Where any doubt arises as to the interpretation of these rules, it shall be referred to the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions for decision.28, Power to relax. - Where the Government is satisfied that the operation of anyof these rules causes undue hardship in any particular case, the Ministry or Department, as the case may be, may, byorder for reasons to be recorded in writing, dispense with or relax the requirements of that rule. Any related issues not specificallycovered in these rules, shall be decided in terms of the relevant provisions in this regard. The Central Government may issue orders or instructions to regulate any matter for which there is noprovision in the rules made. Form 1OPTION TO AVAIL BENEFITS IN CASE OF DEATH OR DISCHARGE ON INVALIDATION ORDISABILITY OF GOVERNMENT SERVANT / SUBSCRIBER DURING SERVICE. This option supersedes any other option made by me earlier. Completely strike out the benefits for which option is not intended to be made. ccumulated pensioncorpus in the Individual Pension Account under the National Pension System. The original Form submitted by the Government servant / Subscriber is to be retained. The details of spouse, all children and parents (whether eligible for family pension or not) and disabled siblings(brothers and sisters) may be given. Wife and husband shall include judicially separated wife and husband. The fact regarding disability or change of marital status of a family member should also beindicated in the ‘Remarks’ column. Providing Aadhaar No. is optional. If provided, consent to link it to Bank Aceount and also forauthentication of identity from UIDAI is presumed. “Tam / we are of opinion that ........ is fit for further service of a less laborious character than that which he hadbeen doing/may, after resting, for... eee months, be fit for more service.”PLAcCeceE veers aneDated the .......ccccsesne eeece eerseeseaeeaena s. Shri/Smt/KM.. sees (name and designation), PRAN........ of this Ministry/ Department/office isdue for retirement on superannuation on ..........0. yretirement or Premature retirement or Special Voluntary retirement. The following documents (in physical form or print-out of forms submitted online) prescribed by the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority for release of terminal benefits under the National Pension System areenclosed:NYR3.2. On retirement from service, in accordance with rule I T/rule 12/rule 13, Shri ............... is entitled to benefits. Shri /Smt. /Kim...... (PRANsovcraneevessyeseenenestan) is deemed to have xetired from Government service. He shall not receive any benefit under the National Pension System at the time of such absorption. He shail receive benefits after exit from the new body or organisation, etc. where Subscriber has been absorbed. The withdrawal papers of a Subscriber under the National Pension System may be processed for transfer of the NPS Account tobee nen eee eras or release of terminal benefits. Form 4C is the form of letter to the Accounts Officer forwarding the withdrawal papers. A penalty of compulsory retirement has been imposed on Shri/Smt/Km uw sscsssessssaeceeseesssecseeseees (nameand designation), PRAN............... of this Ministry or Department or office vide Order No. wee datedcecseessaeestenanes (Copy enclosed) Accordingly, Shri/.Smt./Km.............S8tands compulsorily retired from Governmentservice. No. signation is enclosed,System)PensionNationalofImplementation(ServicesCivilCentral)theof14ruleor17ruleoftermsIn2.noisnePehthtiwecnadroccanimetsySnoisnuslawardhtiW.noitaunnarepus. Strike out if not applicable. Sub: Processing of claim for benefits under the National Pension System on retirement on invalidation or disablementof Shri /Smnt. (Kit... eee (PRAN .....cceceeeeeeees ,)Sir,* I am directed to say that Shri/Smt/Km...............(name and designation), PRAN of thisMinistry or Department or office retired on invalidated (not attributable to Government service) or disableed (attributable to government service) on ............0. Government contribution and returns thereon in the accumulated pension corpus of the Subscriber shall be transferred to Government account. The remaining accumulated pension. corpus shall be paid in lump sum to the subscriber,OR. The Subscriber is eligible for benefits under the National Pension System inaccordance with the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Exits and Withdrawals under NationalPension System) Regulations, 2015. A copy of the option exercised by Shri/Smt/Km is enclosed. The death of Shri/Smt/Km... ue is not attributable to Governmentservice or attributable to Government service. As per the option exercised by Shri /Smt /Ka us. , defaulter defaulters will not be paid. The Government contribution and returns thereon in the accumulated pension corpus of theSubscriber shall be transferred to Gavernment account. The remaining accumulated pension. corpus shali be paid inlump sum to the person(s) in whose favour a nomination has been made. If the nomination made does not subsist, the amount of remaining accumulated pension corpusshall be paid to the legal heir(s) A copy of the option exercised by the Government servant / Subscriber in Form -1 is enclosed. The case of the Subscriber for release of terminal benefits under the National PensionSystem may be processed in accordance with the option exercised by him or her and the provisions of the PensionFund Regulatory and Development Authority.