Summary of ug_ordinance:
Approved by the Board of Governors in its Seventy-third (73rd) meeting held on August 10, 2023 vide Resolution No. 73.13 (A)Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad,Prayagraj India Vision and Mission. M. tee(DMSC) 53.3 Eligibility for Admission 53.4 Categories of Masters’ Students/Programmes 63.4.1 Full-Time Stipendiary 63.3.2 Full- time Non-Stipendiary 73.4,3 Full-time Sponsored 73. 4.2 Part-Time Students 73.5.4 Foreign Students 83.4., Self-financed Foreign students 83.5,.1 Admission of Non-Degree Students93.5,2 Admission of Part-time Students103.5., Cancellation of Admission 10iv 4. Programme REQUIREMENTS 147.1 Attendance, Minimum Residence, Maximum Duration, and Extension14.2 Extension of Programme148 Teaching and Evaluation 158.1 Teaching158.2 Evaluation168.2 Paper Setting168.3 Schedule of Examination 178.2 Grade Improvement Examination178.2.5 Make-up Examination188.3. Grading System188.2 Semester Performance Index (SPI)198.3 Cumulative Performance index (CPI) 208.4 Grading Online Courses 208.5 Grade Report 218.6 Transcript 218.7 Withholding of Grade Report 21v 9 ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE REQUIREments 2110.TERMINATION OF PROGRAMME 2211 APPOINTMENT The provisions contained in these ordinances govern the policies and procedures for theadmission of students, imparting instructions of courses, conduct of examinations, andevaluation and certification of student's performance. M.Tech. Master of TechnologyMBA Master of Business AdministrationMCA Master of Computer ApplicationM.Sc. Masters of ScienceMSW Master of Social Work. MOOCs Massive Open Online Courses. Masters' Programmes include theory, practical, seminars, project, industryinternship, thesis and any other course deemed fit through which a student maydevelop his /her conceptual, analytical, and intellectual skills. The Institute offers following Masters’ Programmes through differentdepartments. quirements stated in the ordinance embody the philosophy of the Masters' Programmes and ensure a high standard of performance at the Institute. The Senate Masters' Programme Committee (SMPC) shall have jurisdiction inmaking suitable recommendations on the following matters. The tenure of the Chairperson SMPC and of the Senate members shall be normally of two years. The SMPC shall meet at least twice every Semester. The functions of the SMPC shall be of general policy determination, coordination and review, but the Senate shall retain the power of the final decision. This Committee shall be assisted by the Department Masters' Programme Committees(DMPCs) The DMPC shall be proposed by the Head of the Department. Officer In-charge ofeach specialization shall be decided by the DMPC. The duration of the Committeeshall be two years starting from the beginning of the Academic Session. The Dean (Academic) shall be responsible for implementing the decisions taken by the Senate and the SMPC. There will be a Board of Academics, hereinafter, referr to the office of the Dean. The Masters' Programmes Section of the office will assist in the functioning of the Board. The Academic Session of the Institute shall be divided into two RegularSemesters, termed as Odd and Even Semesters. The duration of each regularSemester (Odd and Even) shall be normally seventy days /fourteen weeks for thepurpose of instructions. The BoAc will scrutinize the changesin existing curriculum or new proposals. The Dean (Academic) willnotify the Academic Calendar of each Semester after approval of the Senate. Anymodification /change in the academic calendar due to an emergent situations will be proposed by the Dean and reported to Senate for ratification. Eligibility of candidates under ICCR scheme of GoI will be verified byDepartment Masters' Selection Committee (DMSC) on the basis of eligibility criteria set up for regular Master’s p. GATE/NET/JAM/CUCET etc. qualification will not be applicable for thesecandidates. They must have valid GRE Score. Reservation in the Programme shall be done as per the Government of Indiarules. Followings are different categories of Master’s programme. Full-time students are further classified as full-time stipendiary, full- time non-stipendiary and full-Time sponsored. Part-time students are admitted for the Master’s programmes which are being offered on part-time basis. Part-time candidate must have been in full timeservice for at least two years after completion of qualifying degree as on the last date of application. This programme is a self-financed programme. Minimum number ofcandidates required to run this programme shall be decided on cost basis by theSchool of Non Formal and Continuing Education (SNFCE) The eligibility of Foreign students shall be verified by DMSC as per Section 3.3. In addition, the candidate must have a valid GRE score in place of GATE/NET. All admissions except those which are made through Centralized Counseling. shall be made only after approval of the Chairperson Senate. Reservation for various categories shall be applicable as per Government of India rules. 5. The offer of admission shall also stand withdrawn if the candidate fails toregister by the last date of physical registration after accepting the offer ofadmission.6. The selected candidate who has completed all the pre-requisites of qualifyingdegree before the date of registration but is unable to produce the certificate ofproof of having passed will be considered for provisional admission. A non-degree student is a student who is registered for a Degree in any otherrecognized Institute or University in India or abroad. Students so admitted will be governed by all the rules, regulation and regulations. Admission shall be done by DMSC on the basis of screening consideringcandidate's experience, employment record and employee’s recommendation. The Dean (Academic) with approval of the Senate/Chairperson Senate maycancel the admission of any student who fails to submit the prescribeddocuments. A student shallregister in each Semester for the Courses/Projects /Thesis Performance Creditsthat he/she intends to pursue in that Semester. Thosestudents who are on authorized /admissible academic leave shall be required toregister through online process for zero credits. Those students who, after registering for the Semester, desire to avail leave more than as permissible in the Ordinance must be advised for Semesterleave. A student registering for thesis credits must have a thesissupervisor assigned to him /her. The request for repeat or substitution of acourse must be given in writing duly endorsed by the DMPC, to the Dean(Academic) at the time of registration. All non-stipendiary Masters' student shall be entitled for Institute Holidays,mid-semester recess and vacations as specified in the academic calendar. Stipendiary Master's students are entitled to annual leave of maximumeight days in a semester. For serious / exceptional medical condition, accident, etc. (to be endorsed by theinstitute medical officer / Govt. Hospitals/ Specialized Hospitals), a student maybe granted a medical leave of maximum 15 days in an academic year. All other academic requirements must be fulfilled by the student. Only those Masters' Students who have spent at least two semesters andcompleted course work, are eligible to proceed as non-degree student. The Student’s are required to give a presentation on the research/industrial proposal before proceeding on non degree status. Thesis Examination Board (Clause 11.2) shall evaluate the work done by the student for establishing equivalence with the academicperformance requirements of the Institute. A stipendiary student shall be entitled to receive stipend on the condition that he/she is not receiving any financial assistance. Students with less than 75% attendance in a subject shall not be allowed toappear in the End Semester Examination of that subject. This implies that 25%shortage of attendance includes absence due to sports/games activity, Campusinterviews, Medical and any other type of leaves. "Course Work" includes only Masters’ course credits unless otherwise stated. "Maximum Duration" is counted from the student's first registration date. SPI/CPI will be calculated on the basis of all Masters' coursestaken by the student. Multiple exit points with somekind of certification may be used. The medium of instruction shall be English. The list of courses to be offered by a Department/Interdisciplinary Programme shall be finalized by the concerned Head. The Course Coordinator is responsible for conducting the course, evaluating the performance of the students. A student may audit a course in addition to the prescribedAcademic Load requirement with the permission of the concerned Head of theDepartment and intimation to Dean (Academic) There will, however, be noobligation on the part of department to reschedule the time-table if any clasharises. The evaluation of students in a Theory/Practical Course shall be a continuousprocess and shall be based on their performance in the quizzes /class tests,tutorials, assignments, laboratory work. In order to maintain transparency, the course coordinator shall allow the students to see their answer books with the prescribed time limit. Assessment marks shall be awarded on the basis of attendance,tutorials, quizzes, assignments, surprise tests, competition in national levelevents, etc. A Master student may be allowed to complete his /her thesis/ project in anindustry /organization. No regular teaching classes shall be held. A student can appear for a maximum of five courses in any combination oftheory and laboratory every year in the Grade Improvement Examination. If a student fails to appear in the mid semester examination and /orendsemester examinations in one or more course(s), he/she may make arequest to the SMPC Chairperson for a make-up examination. Such a request must be made on the prescribedform. In the case of the makeup test, the upperlimit for awarding marks will be 70% of the maximum marks. There are nine Letter Grades: A+, A, B+, B, C, D, F, N and ABS. A student, who is not allowed to appear in the end-semester examination forany reason, such as shortage of attendance / disciplinary action / or alike, shall be awarded N grade. The system of grading to be followed shall be Relative Grading System. A+ may be awarded to students securing more than or equal to 85% marks. A student securing less than 30% marks may be given grade F. The Semester Performance Index (SPI) is a weighted average of the Grade Pointsearned by a student in all the Courses credited and describes his/her AcademicPerformance in a Semester. 8.3.3 Cumulative Performance Index (CPI) indicates the overall AcademicPerformance of a student. S and X grades shall not be considered in the computation of the SPI. The SMPC, on the basis of recommendation of DMPC shall decide on other matterpertaining to credits, duration, normalization of marks etc. of the online course. A Transcript contains the record of the Grades obtained in eachand all Courses, Thesis, Project and Seminar registered by a student. A student who secures SPI less than 5.5 in the first semester shall be calledACD. A student will be allowed to register in the third semester and subsequent oddsemesters if the following conditions are met by him/her. He/She shall clear N or F grade acquired in first or second semester, in thesubsequent Grade Improvement /semester examination until his/her SPI/CPI is21 equal to or greater than 5.5 after removal of academic deficiency. If any Masters’ (Full-time/ Part-time) student is not able to submit his/ herthesis for evaluation due to not in completion of work at the end of final semester, he/she shall be granted an extension. The Form MP-09a shall also be used for evaluation of work in intermediatesemesters. A student who has not been able to clear academic deficiency at the end ofsecond semester (as per clause 9) shall be terminated from the programme. The termination letter shall be issued by Head of the Department afterapproval of Chairperson Senate/Director with copy to Chairperson, SMPC,Dean SW and Chief Warden. A student, whose programme is terminated on account of inadequateAcademic Performance or otherwise, may appeal to the Chairperson Senator forreconsideration. Students shall be allotted Thesis Supervisor from the faculty of the Institute. A student can have a co-supervisor from outside the Institute on the basis ofrecommendation of the DMPC & the SMPC. 6. If a faculty proceeds on long leave or retires or resigns or ceases to be a faculty, the faculty may continue to be the supervisor.7. The Department shall adopt a transparent system for the allotment of PGstudents amongst all the Faculty Members in the Department. Thesis supervisor may opt for an external examiner from outside the Institute inplace of (ii) above only in the final thesis semester examination with the approvalof the Dean (Academic) Thesis has to be prepared according to the format prescribed in Form: GL-1. 4. The Thesis Supervisor shall issue notice for conduct of oral examination inadvance and shall arrange to send the copies of thesis to the examiners.5. After the final oral examination the modifications suggested, if any, by theExamination Board, shall be incorporated and modified thesis along with softcopy in CD shall be submitted to the Departmental library through ThesisSupervisor(s) If a student fails to appear in the Oral Examination on the specified date, his/her programme would be given W grade. This shall be allowed till the maximum duration of theprogramme. Report of thesis evaluation of students who have been allowed extension shall be submitted in Format MP-09a. Examination of the re-submitted thesis shall be conducted by the sameExamination Board unless any member of the previous board has retired/left theinstitution/debarred by the Senate. In such a case a different board is to beapproved by the Chairperson, SMPC. A student who completes all the graduation requirements specified in Section 13above is recieved a degree. 13.2 Withdrawal of the Degree. Under extremely exceptional circumstances, where gross violation of thegraduation requirements is detected at a later stage, the Senate may recommend to the Board of Governors for the withdrawal of a Degree already awarded. 14. Stipendiary Masters' students shall be getting financial assistance in the form of stipend/fellowship at the approved rates and guidelines as notified by theGovernment from time to time. The Dean Students Welfare shall initiate theprocess after receiving the information from Dean Academic and Head of theDepartment. Prizes, Medals and Scholarships may be established by the Institute on its own or through endowments/grants made by donors. Lack of courtesy and decorum, unbecoming conduct (both within and outside the Institute), willful damage and/or removal of Institute property or belongings offellow students, disturbing others in their studies, adoption of unfair meansduring examinations, breach of rules and regulations of the Institute, noisy andunseemly behavior and similar other undesirable activities shall constituteviolation of the Code of Conduct for students. An act of serious Violation of the Code of Conduct may be reported to ChiefProcter for necessary disciplinary action on approval of the Director. For indiscipline of a student in a class, the course instructor may debar him fromfew subsequent classes for which he/she shall not be liable to get relaxation inattendance. The procedure to deal with the cases of Unfair Means (UFM):. Any use of UFM detected by Course Instructor/Invigilators /Members ofObserver Committee/flying squad shall be reported to Dean. Unfair Means Committee shall meet after six days of the completion of SemesterExamination. Committee shall give opportunity to the student concerned andrecommend the award of punishment. Mere possession of any electronic storage device as mentioned above shallamount to usage of Unfair Means. A student who is not satisfied with the punishment awarded may, however,appeal to the Chairperson Senate stating clearly the case and explaining his/herposition, seeking reconsideration of the decision. If the decision is not taken by the date of Grade entry the Grades entered shall be ‘W’ and the result of such student shall not be declared along with other students. 30 Form: MP-01(Clause 3.4.3)Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology AllahabadConversion from Full time to Part time. 31 Form: MP-02(Clause 5)Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology AllahabadLeave ApplicationHead of the DepartmentKindly allow me to avail Leave/Leave on Duty from……………………..to………………………........………..for…………………days and station leave from date…….…time….…to………..Date……......……….Time ......................... My address during leave will be as below. Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology AllahabadPerformance evaluation at host Institution/Industry[For Non-degree students]1. Registration No:.................................................................................................................................2. Name of the Student:.................................................................................................................................................................3. Pro Pro Pro M.Tech./MCA/MBA/MSc/MSW:........................................................................................4. Branch:...............................................................................................................................................5. Present Semester:..............................................................................................................................6. Department:................................................................ ........................................................................7. Thesis Title:........................................................8. Name and address of the Host Institution/Industry:.............................................................................9. Report from the host Institute/ Industry:.........................................................Marks awarded in 50:................................ 34 Form: MP 05(Clause 10.1)Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology AllahabadAPPLICATION FOR MERCY APPEAL. Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad. Addition of Co-Supervisor from outside the Institute. Name of the Student:………………….……….….…. Reg. No. No.:…………….……................Department:          Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology AllahabadList of Suggested Examiners for M.Tech./MCA/MBA/M.Sc./MSW Thesis. Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad. Report of M.Tech./MCA/MBA/M.Sc./MSW THESIS EXAMINATION BOARD(Interim) Thesis Supervisor(s) Convener, DMPC Head of Department.Date:40 Form: MP 10(Clause 15.3)Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad. Three bound copies of the Thesis should be submitted for Thesis Examination. Thesis must be typed in double spacing using Times New Roman f. It should be in Black Colour. Main Heading (Section) : 12 font Bold. Subsection Heading 12 font, bold, italic. Chapter heading: Bold/Caps 14 font size. Thesis should be printed on one side.